# KD-Tree & QuadTree Python library

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Modules](#modules)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Visualization](#visualization)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction
This project provides an implementation of KD-tree and QuadTree data structures in Python. It includes tools for building, querying, and visualizing these trees. The project is designed to help understand the functionality and efficiency of KD-tree and QuadTree for various datasets.

## Installation
To install the necessary dependencies, run:

```sh
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Usage
To use the KD-tree and QuadTree implementations, you can run the Jupyter Notebook `main.ipynb` (in Polish). This notebook provides a comprehensive interface for testing, visualizing, and comparing these two data structures.

### Running the Notebook
1. Open `main.ipynb` in Jupyter Notebook or JupyterLab (preferred VS Code).
2. Follow the instructions in the notebook cells to run tests, generate visualizations, and compare the performance of KD-tree and QuadTree.

## Modules

### KDTree
- `kdtree.py`: Contains the implementation of the KD-tree data structure.
- `kdtree_test.py`: Contains unit tests for the KD-tree implementation.
- `kdtree_visualizer.py`: Provides visualization tools for the KD-tree.

### QuadTree
- `quad.py`: Contains the implementation of the QuadTree data structure.

### Other Modules
- `automatic_tests.py`: Contains integration tests for both KD-tree and QuadTree.
- `generators.py`: Provides functions to generate various types of point datasets.
- `gui_creator.py`: Provides a graphical user interface for creating points and query ranges.
- `visualizer`: Contains visualization tools written by [_BIT Scientific Group_](https://github.com/aghbit/Algorytmy-Geometryczne) (no additional dependencies than those specified in the [Installation](#installation) are required).

## Testing
To run the unit tests for KD-tree, execute the following command:

```sh
python -m kdtree.kdtree_test
```

To run the integration tests, execute the following command:

```sh
python automatic_tests.py
```

## Visualization
The project includes tools for visualizing the construction and querying of KD-tree and QuadTree. These visualizations can be generated by running the cells in `main.ipynb`.

### KD-tree Visualization
- **Build Visualization**: Shows the process of building the KD-tree.
- **Query Visualization**: Shows the process of querying the KD-tree.

### QuadTree Visualization
- **Build Visualization**: Shows the process of building the QuadTree.
- **Query Visualization**: Shows the process of querying the QuadTree.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.
